These companies claim to "build AI in service of humanity" (https://openai.com/index/built-to-benefit-everyone-our-plan/), "not to decide which scientific problems deserve attention or try to solve them all ourselves" (https://openai.com/index/chatgpt-for-academic-researchers/) and "empower scientists and mathematicians with tools that accelerate discovery" (https://openai.com/index/ten-advances-in-mathematics/). So why are they spending so much real money trying to out-run mathematicians (for instance, trying to outcompete postdocs like Julia Stadlmann), rather than simply providing tools and letting mathematicians use them? The answer is simple: these companies are transparently lying about their motivations. Mathematicians are a small global market, and they have to reach a US$1.5 trillion market valuation, so they see us only as a credulous and naive source of advertising wins that they can sell on to the actual customers for their products.

Announcements of this form (that 100 `open problems' have been `solved', without giving any details) are both very hurtful to the standing of mathematics as a profession and solidify the fact that the
large LLM companies are using the mathematics community as a pawn in their PR and advertising campaigns. Feeding the narrative that mathematics as a field consists of a list of problems which must be
solved, and then once we have done so we can all go home, ignores two facts:

  (i)  Even mathematicians who primarily work on short and easy to state problems are less interested in having a formal verified proof than in understanding deeply why the thing is true or false.
       Communicating this understanding (as well as describing the motivation for, and choosing interesting consequence of, the problems) is a creative process.
  (ii) many mathematicians do not work on short and easy to state problems, and instead spend most of their time navigating a broad space of facts (often easy to prove) and trying to gather them
       together into a broader picture of some mathematical landscape; for these mathematicians, trying to mechanise the process ignores the entire point of their work, which is to have a human
       perspective on facts which are true or false regardless of human existence. Again, this is a creative process: the output is a human perspective, not a list of things which are true and a certificate of truth.

Anyone who has ever dealt with undergraduate students (or the general public) knows that most people have a very limited understanding of this, and indeed believe that the job of mathematicians is to
mechanically solve a list of problems for some higher authority, as this is all they have ever experienced themselves. Companies with such political and financial power reinforcing this, and pushing a
message that this job can now be done by machines will only lead to a loss of respect for mathematicians and further reduction in funding and job opportunities for young people.

My view of mathematics as a field and a community has always been that it values people who spend a very long time (years or decades) thinking about ideas until they reach understanding. I will continue to work
this way regardless of how many large software companies try to turn the field into a competition to produce as many proofs as possible as quickly as the arXiv will take them.
